README.md, before:

# Human Energy Exchange

An immersive, static world map that visualises electricity generation and demand across major grids. Regions breathe and glow to show grid strain while live open-data overlays provide extra context for wind, solar and air quality.

## Highlights

- **Accurate global canvas** – the map now uses a Mercator projection with a refined world outline, so regional pulses appear where you'd expect them.
- **Expanded grid coverage** – deterministic data generation now spans nine high-impact regions across every continent.
- **Live open data overlays** – additional insight cards stream readings from Open-Meteo, OpenAQ, and the Emissions API whenever a region is selected.
- **Zero-build tooling** – everything ships as vanilla HTML, CSS, and JS generated by a tiny Node build script.

## Getting started

1. Install Node.js 18 or newer.
2. Install dependencies (installs only dev tooling metadata):

   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

3. Generate the static site and dataset:

   ```bash
   npm run build
   ```

4. Preview the build locally:

   ```bash
   npm run start
   ```

   Visit `http://localhost:3000` in your browser.

## Project layout

- `public/` – static assets, including the HTML entry point and client-side script.
- `src/data/energy.js` – deterministic data generator that seeds the experience with grid balances.
- `build.js` – copies static assets into `dist/` and emits `dist/data/energy.json`.
- `serve.js` – lightweight static server for local previews.

## License

MIT

Commit message:

Expand map coverage and align city markers

README.md, after:

# Human Energy Exchange

An immersive, static world map that visualises electricity generation and demand across major grids. Each pulse is anchored to a specific metropolis on the illustrated base map, scaled so it fills most of the viewport. Regions breathe and glow to show grid strain while live open-data overlays provide extra context for wind, solar and air quality.

## Highlights

- **City-level pulses** – fourteen major population centres are positioned with pre-calculated pixel coordinates so every marker aligns with the illustrated map artwork.
- **Readable at-a-glance** – the world canvas stretches across the layout, removing hard borders so hover tooltips float freely over the map.
- **Live open data overlays** – additional insight cards stream readings from Open-Meteo, OpenAQ, and the Emissions API whenever a region is selected.
- **Zero-build tooling** – everything ships as vanilla HTML, CSS, and JS generated by a tiny Node build script.

## How it works

1. `src/data/energy.js` defines the fourteen featured cities, including their real latitude/longitude for API lookups and the exact pixel positions they should occupy on the background map. The build script converts those pixels into percentages so the front-end can place each pulse precisely, even as the map scales responsively.
2. `build.js` runs `generateEnergyData()`, emits deterministic grid mix values and synthetic 24-hour balance history, and writes the result to `dist/data/energy.json`.
3. `public/main.js` loads the JSON at runtime, renders the breathing markers using the precomputed map percentages, and handles interactions such as hover tooltips, balance summaries, and open-data fetches.
4. CSS in `public/styles.css` keeps the map dominant within the layout and removes clipping borders so tooltips stay readable.

## Getting started

1. Install Node.js 18 or newer.
2. Install dependencies (installs only dev tooling metadata):

   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

3. Generate the static site and dataset:

   ```bash
   npm run build
   ```

4. Preview the build locally:

   ```bash
   npm run start
   ```

   Visit `http://localhost:3000` in your browser.

## Project layout

- `public/` – static assets, including the HTML entry point and client-side script.
- `src/data/energy.js` – deterministic data generator that seeds the experience with grid balances.
- `build.js` – copies static assets into `dist/` and emits `dist/data/energy.json`.
- `serve.js` – lightweight static server for local previews.

## License

MIT
